Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans.Programming languages enable communication between humans and computers.
    A programming language is a set of commands, instructions, and other syntax use to create a software program.
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans. jConsole: This is a Java monitoring and management Console.
   jar: This is the archiver. This tool is used to package related class libraries into a single Jar file as well as to manage Jar files.
   jarSigner: This tool is used for jar signing and verifying.
   javap: This is a tool for class file disassembler.
   javaws: Java web start launcher for JNLP applications.
   jhat: Java heap analysis tool.
   jrunscript: Java command-line script shell.
   jstack: Utility used to print stack traces for Java threads.
   Javadoc: This automatically generates documentation from the source code comments.
   appletviewer: Used for applet execution and debugging without a web browser.
   apt: Annotation processing tool.
   extCheck: Utility used to check jar file conflicts.
   keytool: Using this utility you can manipulate Keystore.
   policytool: This is a policy creation and management tool.
   xjc: This is a part of the XML binding (JAXB) API that accepts XML schema and generates Java classes.
What is IDE?
Ans.Integrated Development Environment.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
   Ans.What makes a good Java IDE?
       Eclipse,NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA, BlueJ
       JDeveloper, MyEclipse,Greenfoot, jGRASP, jCreator, DrJava

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans.In Java, programs are not compiled into executable files;
they are compiled into bytecode (as discussed earlier), which the JVM (Java Virtual Machine) then executes at runtime.
Java source code is compiled into bytecode when we use the javac compiler.The bytecode gets saved on the disk with the file extension .

what is class?
Ans. A class is a blue print of an object.

What is object?
Ans.  Object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
Ans. An application entry point identifies a resource that is an access point to an application.
Application entry points are used to control users' access to different versions of an application that is deployed on a platform.

Why main is static?
Ans. Java main() method is always static,
so that compiler can call it without the creation of an object or before the creation of an object of the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans. The class named Object is the super class of every class in Java.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Ans.PATH is the environment variable where we specify the locations of binaries.
Example: We add bin directory path of JDK or JRE, so that any binaries under the directory can be accessed directly without specifying absolute path.
CLASSPATH is the path for Java application where the classes you compiled will be available.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans. An abstract class allows you to create functionality that subclasses can implement or override.
 An interface only allows you to define functionality, not implement it.
And whereas a class can extend only one abstract class, it can take advantage of multiple interfaces.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans. You cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete class.
What you can do is to implement a subclass of abstract class which, of course, must not be abstract.

what is Access Specifier?
Ans.Access modifiers (or access specifiers) are keywords in
object-oriented languages that set the accessibility of classes, methods, and other members.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans. OOP = Object Oriented Language.
 abstraction: Data abstraction is the process of hiding certain details and showing only essential information to the user.
 encapsulation:Hides the data of a class from any other classes. Idea behind encapsulation is to hide the implementation
 the user.
 inheritance:Inheritance is an important pillar of OOP(Object-Oriented Programming). It is the mechanism
 in java by which one class is allowed to inherit the features(fields and methods) of another class.
 The subclass can add its own fields and methods in addition to the superclass fields and methods.
 polymorphism:Polymorphism in Java is a concept by which we can perform a single action in different ways.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Ans. ava compiler imports java. lang package internally by default.
It provides the fundamental classes that are necessary to design a basic Java program.
A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related classes and interface.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans. API is the acronym for Application Programming Interface, which is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.
JMF, JAI, JPI, etc.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Ans. No java doesn't support multiple inheritance directly because it leads to overriding of methods when
both extended class have a same method name.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans. Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name.
Overloading occurs when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but different parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Ans.An exception is an event, which occurs during the execution of a program,
The try-catch is the simplest method of handling exceptions. Put the code you want to run in the try block,
and any Java exceptions that the code throws are caught by one or more catch blocks.
This method will catch any type of Java exceptions that get thrown. This is the simplest mechanism for handling exceptions.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans. keyword static indicates that the particular member belongs to a type itself, rather than to an instance of that type.
Static variables are used with the class name and the dot operator, since they are associated with a class.
a static method belongs to the class itself, not to individual objects of that class.
that means You don't need an object to use the method

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Ans.Final is a keyword, You can declare a variable in any scope to be final.
The value of a final variable cannot change after it has been initialized.
final keyword in a method declaration to indicate that the method cannot be overridden by subclasses.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans. Final:Final is a modifier applicable for classes, methods, and variables.
   Finally: Finally is a block associated with try{}Catch.
   Finalize: Finalize is a method which is always invoked by garbage collector just before destroying an object to
   perform clea up activity.

What is a constructor ?
Ans.  A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Ans. yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Ans. Default Constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans. Keyword 'THIS' in Java is a reference variable that refers to the current object.
It can be used to refer current class instance variable.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Ans. The super keyword refers to superclass (parent) objects. It is used to call superclass methods,
and to access the superclass constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
Ans. Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
Ans.JVM is platform dependent because it takes java byte code and generates byte code for the current operating system.

What version of java are you using?
Ans. 1.8 ans 13.02

What is JAR stand for ?
JAR stands for Java ARchive. It's a file format based on the popular ZIP file format and is used for aggregating many files into one.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDK – Java Development Kit (in short JDK) is Kit which provides the environment to develop and execute(run) the Java program.
JRE - JRE is only used by them who only wants to run the Java Programs i.e. end users of your system.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Ans. JVM – Java Virtual machine(JVM) is a very important part of both JDK and JRE because it is contained or inbuilt in both.
Whatever Java program you run using JRE or JDK goes into JVM and JVM is responsible for executing the java program line by line hence it is also known as interpreter.
JRE - JRE is only used by them who only wants to run the Java Programs i.e. end users of your system.

What is compile time and run time?
Ans.Compile time is when the program is compiled; runtime is when it executes

What is heap?
Ans. Heap memory is essentially a large pool of memory (typically per process) from which
the running program can request chunks.

How java manage it's memory?
Ans. Java, memory management is the process of allocation and de-allocation of objects, called Memory management.
Java does memory management automatically. Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Ans. String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes. StringBuffer is thread-safe and
synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not. That's why StringBuilder is faster than StringBuffer.

What is Singleton class?
Ans. The class has only one object. we can not have more than one object of the class. A single ton class returns
the same instance no matter how many times an application request it.  Singleton's purpose is to control object creation,

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Ans.Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
Ans.transient is a variables modifier used in serialization. At the time of serialization,
if we don't want to save value of a particular variable in a file, then we use transient keyword.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
Ans. In while loop, condition is evaluated first and then the statements inside loop body gets executed,
on the other hand in do-while loop, statements inside do-while gets executed first and then the condition is evaluated.

What is Enum?
Ans.A Java Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants. More precisely,
a Java enum type is a special kind of Java class.

What is Iterator?
Ans:An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet.
It is called an "iterator" because "iterating" is the technical term for looping.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Ans.An Integer object will take more memory an Integer is the an object and
it store meta data overhead about the object and int is primitive type so its takes less

Why is String Immutable in Java?
Ans.The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in the String pool

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Ans.Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Ans. serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation,
while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.

What is JIT stands for?
Ans.Just In Time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Ans.Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or
decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected.
During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Ans.No, Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out of memory.
So to conclude, garbage collection (GC) handles most of the memory management and makes all possible attempts to make
memory available for the application but it does not guarantee that it will be able to provide it.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Ans.Stack is a linear data structure whereas Heap is a hierarchical data structure.
 Stack variables can't be resized whereas Heap variables can be resized.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Ans. is a feature in Java which provides a way to get reflective information about Java classes and objects
such as: Getting information about methods and fields present inside the class at run time

what is multithreading in java?
Ans.Multithreading is a Java feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of a program for maximum utilization of CPU.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Ans.Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java.

What is Framework?
Ans.Framework is a collection of Software Libraries created using variety of Programming languages which can be used as foundation for creating Software

What are the testing Framework available in java?
Ans. Selenium, TestNG, Junit, Cucumber, Jbehave, Mockito, serenity.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Ans.JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests. TestNG is a Java-based framework that is an upgraded option for running tests.
JUnit does not support to run parallel tests. TestNG can run parallel tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?

what is dependency injection in java?
Ans. Dependency injection (DI) is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside. DI can be implemented in any programming language.
The general concept behind dependency injection is called Inversion of Control.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Ans.Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve binding.
Overloaded methods are resolved using static binding while overridden methods using dynamic binding, i.e, at run time.









