Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Ans.The needs of data structures include the following: efficiency, reusability, and invisibility.
Data structure provides a means of organizing, managing, and storing data efficiently.
It also includes the collection of data as well as the operations that can be applied to that data.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Ans.Traversing: Traversing a Data Structure means to visit the element stored in it. This can be done with any type of DS.
Searching: Searching means to find a particular element in the given data-structure. It is considered as successful when the required element is found.
Searching is the operation which we can performed on data-structures like array, linked-list, tree, graph, etc.
Insertion: It is the operation which we apply on all the data-structures. Insertion means to add an element in the given data structure.
The operation of insertion is successful when the required element is added to the required data-structure.
Deletion: It is the operation which we apply on all the data-structures. Deletion means to delete an element in the given data structure.
The operation of deletion is successful when the required element is deleted from the data structure.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Compiler Design,Operating System,Database Management System,Statistical analysis package,Numerical Analysis,Graphics,Artificial Intelligence,and Simulation.

what is an Array?
Ans.n array is a collection of items stored at contiguous memory locations.
The idea is to store multiple items of the same type together

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Ans.Array is a fixed length data structure whereas ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.
 We cannot change length of array once created in Java but ArrayList can be changed.

what is LinkedList?
Ans. A linked list is a linear data structure, in which the elements are not stored at contiguous memory locations.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
Ans. An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type.
A linked list is a collection of objects known as a node where node consists of two parts, i.e., data and address.
Array elements store in a contiguous memory location.
Linked list elements can be stored anywhere in the memory or randomly stored.

what is queue?
Ans.Queue represents a data structure designed to have elements inserted at the end of the queue,
and elements removed from the beginning of the queue.

what is stack?
Ans. The stack is a linear data structure that is used to store the collection of objects. It is based on Last-In-First-Out (LIFO).

what is FIFO and LIFO?
Ans. First in First out and Last in Last out

what is the order of complexity?
Ans. Generally, an algorithm has an asymptotic computational complexity. Assuming the input is of size N,
we can say that the algorithm will finish at O(N), O(N^2), O(N^3), O(N*log(N)) etc.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Ans.Best searching technique for searching any element in an array is Linear search
for a unsorted array where no specific pattern is given.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Ans.The worst case arises when the element is at last position or not in the array,
therefore we have to traverse the whole array giving n no. of repetitions over loop

what is tree in data structure?
Ans.A tree is a collection of entities called nodes .

what is graph in data structure?
Ans. A Graph is a non-linear data structure consisting of nodes and edges.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Ans.  the main difference between them is that HashMap is not thread-safe but Hashtable is thread-safe.
Another difference is HashMap allows one null key and null values but Hashtable doesn't allow null key or values.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.

How HashMap works in java?
Ans.HashMap contains an array of the nodes, and the node is represented as a class. It uses an array and LinkedList
data structure internally for storing Key and Value.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
Ans. ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is thrown to indicate that we are trying to access array element with an illegal index.
This exception is thrown when the index is either negative or greater than or equal to the size of the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Ans. Manually.
    Arrays.copyOf()
    System.arraycopy()
    Object.clone()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
Ans.An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. A linked list is a collection of objects known
as a node where node consists of two parts, i.e., data and address.

What is DFS and BFS?
Ans.BFS stands for Breadth First Search. DFS stands for Depth First Search. 2. BFS(Breadth First Search) uses
Queue data structure for finding the shortest path. DFS(Depth First Search) uses Stack data structure.

What is Recursion?
Ans.Recursion is a basic programming technique you can use in Java, in which a method calls itself to solve some problem.
A method that uses this technique is recursive.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Ans.In a linear data structure, data elements are arranged in a linear order where each and every elements are attached
to its previous and next adjacent. In a non-linear data structure, data elements are attached in hierarchically manner.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Ans.Big O notation is used in Computer Science to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Ans.Selection Sort	Ω(n^2)	θ(n^2)	O(n^2)
    Bubble Sort	Ω(n)	θ(n^2)	O(n^2)
    Insertion Sort	Ω(n)	θ(n^2)	O(n^2)
    Heap Sort	Ω(n log(n))	θ(n log(n))	O(n log(n))
    Quick Sort	Ω(n log(n))	θ(n log(n))	O(n^2)
    Merge Sort	Ω(n log(n))	θ(n log(n))	O(n log(n))
    Bucket Sort	Ω(n+k)	θ(n+k)	O(n^2)
    Radix Sort	Ω(nk)	θ(nk)	O(nk)

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


